README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr/releases/download/assets/dsfr-react_repo-card.png">  
</p>
<p align="center">
    🇫🇷 <i><a href="https://www.systeme-de-design.gouv.fr/">French State Design System</a> React integration</i> 🇫🇷 
    <br>
    <br>
    <a href="https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr/actions">
      <img src="https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr/workflows/ci/badge.svg?branch=main">
    </a>
    <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr?logo=npm">
    </a>
    <a href="https://bundlephobia.com/package/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr">
    </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://react-dsfr-components.etalab.studio">Components documentation</a>
  -
  <a href="https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/">Guides</a>
  -
  <a href="https://stackblitz.com/edit/nextjs-j2wba3?file=pages/index.tsx">Playground</a>
</p>

> 🗣️ Replay de l'atelier de présentation de la librairie [ici](https://bbb-dinum-scalelite.visio.education.fr/playback/presentation/2.3/22298bc9d93b53540248207bc3f9e31260f3b4f1-1670578779094).

This module is a wrapper/compatibility layer for [@gouvfr/dsfr](https://github.com/GouvernementFR/dsfr), the vanilla JS/CSS implementation of the DSFR.  
https://filedn.com/lYPEPucNMheV19aDu23lK0Q/Etalab/dsfr/reacr-dsfr_trailer-vp9-chrome.webm  

> For TypeScript and JavaScript projects.

-   [x] Fully TypeSafe, well documented API.
-   [x] Always in up to date with latest the DSFR evolutions.
        Code and Types generated from [`@gouvfr/dsfr`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gouvfr/dsfr)`/dist/dsfr.css`.
-   [x] Exactly the same look and feel than with [@gouvfr/dsfr](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gouvfr/dsfr).
-   [x] No [white flash when reloading in SSR setup](https://github.com/codegouvfr/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr/issues/2#issuecomment-1257263480).
-   [x] [Perfect integration with all major React framework: Next.js, Create React App, Vue](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/).
-   [ ] All [the components](https://www.systeme-de-design.gouv.fr/elements-d-interface) are implemented (14/42, [see details](COMPONENTS.md))
-   [x] Three shakable distribution, cherry pick the components you import. (It's not all in a big .js bundle)
-   [x] Optional integration with [MUI](https://mui.com/). If you use MUI components they will
        be automatically adapted to look like [DSFR components](https://www.systeme-de-design.gouv.fr/elements-d-interface). See [documentation](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/mui-integration).
-   [x] Enable CSS in JS by providing a `useTheme()` hooks that exposes the correct colors options and decision
        for the currently enabled color scheme.
-   [x] Opt-in i18n, built in text can be displayed in multiple languages and user can provide extra translations.
-   [x] [Support routing libraries](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/routing) like react-router.

This module is a product of [Etalab's Free and open source software pole](https://communs.numerique.gouv.fr/a-propos/).
I'm working full time on this project. You can expect rapid development.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/">🚀 Get started 🚀 </a>
</p>

# What about [`@dataesr/react-dsfr`](https://github.com/dataesr/react-dsfr)?

`@codegouvfr/react-dsfr` is a TypeScript oriented library that puts high priority in providing a good integration with the
JavaScript ecosystem, notably Next.js.  
It's has been started in October 2022, it's a much newer initiative and although it's being actively developed, as of today,
`@dataesr/react-dsfr` is more stable and provide [a wider component coverage](https://github.com/dataesr/react-dsfr/tree/master/src/components/interface).  
If you are working on a SPA (Create React App, Vite) `@dataesr/react-dsfr` is probably a more viable option at the moment.

That being said, many of `@codegouvfr/react-dsfr`'s features can be enjoyed without migrating away from `@dataesr/react-dsfr`.  
You can, as standalone feature:

-   Enjoy the [`fr-*` classes autocompletion and type safety](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/class-names-type-safety).
-   Use [the type safe color system](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/css-in-js#colors).
-   Use the MUI theme.
-   The [the spacing system](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/css-in-js#fr.spacing) and
    [breakpoints util for building responsive UI](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/css-in-js#fr.breakpoints).

[Here is a playground to demonstrate it](https://stackblitz.com/edit/react-ts-fph9bh?file=App.tsx).

# Development

Here are instructions for contributing, if you are looking to **use** `@codegouvfr/react-dsfr` heads over to the [documentation page](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/).

```bash
git clone https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr
cd react-dsfr
yarn

# Starting storybook
yarn storybook
# You can run 'npx tsc -w -p src' on another terminal for enabling hot reloading.

# Starting test apps
yarn start-cra  # For testing in in a Create React App setup
yarn start-next # For testing in a Next.js setup
yarn start-vite # For testing in a Vite setup

# Run all unit test (test/runtime):
yarn test
# Run only test/runtime/cssVariable.test.ts (for example)
npx vitest -t "Resolution of CSS variables"

# Debugging while unit testing
```

## How to publish a new version on NPM, how to release a beta version

This repo was bootstrapped form [garronej/ts-ci](https://github.com/garronej/ts-ci) have a look at the
documentation of this starter for understanding the lifecycle of this repo.

Commit message:

Add link video to the readme

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr/releases/download/assets/dsfr-react_repo-card.png">  
</p>
<p align="center">
    🇫🇷 <i><a href="https://www.systeme-de-design.gouv.fr/">French State Design System</a> React integration</i> 🇫🇷 
    <br>
    <br>
    <a href="https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr/actions">
      <img src="https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr/workflows/ci/badge.svg?branch=main">
    </a>
    <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr?logo=npm">
    </a>
    <a href="https://bundlephobia.com/package/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr">
    </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://react-dsfr-components.etalab.studio">Components documentation</a>
  -
  <a href="https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/">Guides</a>
  -
  <a href="https://stackblitz.com/edit/nextjs-j2wba3?file=pages/index.tsx">Playground</a>
</p>

> 🗣️ Replay de l'atelier de présentation de la librairie [ici](https://bbb-dinum-scalelite.visio.education.fr/playback/presentation/2.3/22298bc9d93b53540248207bc3f9e31260f3b4f1-1670578779094).

This module is a wrapper/compatibility layer for [@gouvfr/dsfr](https://github.com/GouvernementFR/dsfr), the vanilla JS/CSS implementation of the DSFR.

[react-dsfr trailer.webm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6702424/208781015-cff0a99e-08ca-4e28-b971-90fab3b184f8.webm)

[Youtube link](https://youtu.be/5q88JgXUAY4)

> For TypeScript and JavaScript projects.

-   [x] Fully TypeSafe, well documented API.
-   [x] Always in up to date with latest the DSFR evolutions.
        Code and Types generated from [`@gouvfr/dsfr`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gouvfr/dsfr)`/dist/dsfr.css`.
-   [x] Exactly the same look and feel than with [@gouvfr/dsfr](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gouvfr/dsfr).
-   [x] No [white flash when reloading in SSR setup](https://github.com/codegouvfr/@codegouvfr/react-dsfr/issues/2#issuecomment-1257263480).
-   [x] [Perfect integration with all major React framework: Next.js, Create React App, Vue](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/).
-   [ ] All [the components](https://www.systeme-de-design.gouv.fr/elements-d-interface) are implemented (14/42, [see details](COMPONENTS.md))
-   [x] Three shakable distribution, cherry pick the components you import. (It's not all in a big .js bundle)
-   [x] Optional integration with [MUI](https://mui.com/). If you use MUI components they will
        be automatically adapted to look like [DSFR components](https://www.systeme-de-design.gouv.fr/elements-d-interface). See [documentation](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/mui-integration).
-   [x] Enable CSS in JS by providing a `useTheme()` hooks that exposes the correct colors options and decision
        for the currently enabled color scheme.
-   [x] Opt-in i18n, built in text can be displayed in multiple languages and user can provide extra translations.
-   [x] [Support routing libraries](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/routing) like react-router.

This module is a product of [Etalab's Free and open source software pole](https://communs.numerique.gouv.fr/a-propos/).
I'm working full time on this project. You can expect rapid development.

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/">🚀 Get started 🚀 </a>
</p>

# What about [`@dataesr/react-dsfr`](https://github.com/dataesr/react-dsfr)?

`@codegouvfr/react-dsfr` is a TypeScript oriented library that puts high priority in providing a good integration with the
JavaScript ecosystem, notably Next.js.  
It's has been started in October 2022, it's a much newer initiative and although it's being actively developed, as of today,
`@dataesr/react-dsfr` is more stable and provide [a wider component coverage](https://github.com/dataesr/react-dsfr/tree/master/src/components/interface).  
If you are working on a SPA (Create React App, Vite) `@dataesr/react-dsfr` is probably a more viable option at the moment.

That being said, many of `@codegouvfr/react-dsfr`'s features can be enjoyed without migrating away from `@dataesr/react-dsfr`.  
You can, as standalone feature:

-   Enjoy the [`fr-*` classes autocompletion and type safety](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/class-names-type-safety).
-   Use [the type safe color system](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/css-in-js#colors).
-   Use the MUI theme.
-   The [the spacing system](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/css-in-js#fr.spacing) and
    [breakpoints util for building responsive UI](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/css-in-js#fr.breakpoints).

[Here is a playground to demonstrate it](https://stackblitz.com/edit/react-ts-fph9bh?file=App.tsx).

# Development

Here are instructions for contributing, if you are looking to **use** `@codegouvfr/react-dsfr` heads over to the [documentation page](https://react-dsfr.etalab.studio/).

```bash
git clone https://github.com/codegouvfr/react-dsfr
cd react-dsfr
yarn

# Starting storybook
yarn storybook
# You can run 'npx tsc -w -p src' on another terminal for enabling hot reloading.

# Starting test apps
yarn start-cra  # For testing in in a Create React App setup
yarn start-next # For testing in a Next.js setup
yarn start-vite # For testing in a Vite setup

# Run all unit test (test/runtime):
yarn test
# Run only test/runtime/cssVariable.test.ts (for example)
npx vitest -t "Resolution of CSS variables"

# Debugging while unit testing
```

## How to publish a new version on NPM, how to release a beta version

This repo was bootstrapped form [garronej/ts-ci](https://github.com/garronej/ts-ci) have a look at the
documentation of this starter for understanding the lifecycle of this repo.
